wdevc(1) -- control WalB block devices
===========================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`wdevc` [<opt>] <command> [<args>] [<opt>]


## DESCRIPTION

**wdevc** controlls WalB block devices; create, delete, resize, etc.


## COMMAND LIST

* `format-ldev` [<opt>] <LDEV> <DDEV>:
  Format a log device.

* `create-wdev` [<opt>] <LDEV> <DDEV>:
  Create a walb device.

* `delete-wdev` [<opt>] <WDEV>:
  Delete a walb device.

* `list`:
  List all walb device in the system.

* `set-checkpoint-interval` <WDEV> <INTERVAL>:
  Set checkpoint interval.

* `get-checkpoint-interval` <WDEV>:
  Get checkpoint interval.

* `force-checkpoint` <WDEV>:
  Execute checkpointing immediately.

* `set-oldest-lsid` <WDEV> <LSID>:
  Set oldest lsid (to clear wlogs)

* `get-oldest-lsid` <WDEV>:
  Get oldest lsid.

* `get-written-lsid` <WDEV>:
  Get written lsid.

* `get-permanent-lsid` <WDEV>:
  Get permanent lsid.

* `get-completed-lsid` <WDEV>:
  Get completed lsid.

* `get-log-usage` <WDEV>:
  Get log usage [physical block].

* `get-log-capacity` <WDEV>:
  Get log capacity [physical block].

* `is-flush-capable` <WDEV>:
  Check flush request capability.

* `resize` <WDEV> <SIZE>:
  Resize a walb device (only growing is supported).

* `is-log-overflow` <WDEV>:
  Check log overflow.

* `reset-wal` <WDEV>:
  Reset log device to recover from wlog overflow.

* `clear-wal` <WDEV>:
  Clear all wlogs.

* `freeze` <WDEV> <TIMEOUT>:
  Freeze temporarily a walb device.

* `is-flozen` <WDEV>:
  Check a walb device is frozen or not.

* `melt` <WDEV>:
  Melt a freezed walb device.

* `get-version`:
  Get version of the walb kernel device driver.


## COMMON ARGUMENTS

* <LDEV>:
  underlying log device path.

* <DDEV>:
  underlying data device path.

* <WDEV>:
  WalB device path.

## COMMON OPTIONS

* `-h`:
  Show help messages.
  Specify this after command name to show command-specifid help.

* `-debug`:
  Show debug mssages to stderr.


## OPTIONS for format-ldev

* `-n` <NAME>:
  walb device name (default: decided automatically)
* `-nd`:
  disable discard IOs


## OPTIONS for create-wdev

* `-n` <NAME>:
  walb device name (default: decided automatically)
* `-maxl` <SIZE>:
  max logpack size [KiB]
* `-maxp` <SIZE>:
  max pending size [MiB]
* `-minp` <SIZE>:
  min pending size [MiB]
  recommended to set 1/2 of the `maxp` value.
* `-qp` <PERIOD>:
  queue stopping period [ms]
  for HDD, 100-1000 range is recommended.
  for SSD, 1-10 range is recommended.
* `-fs` <SIZE>:
  flush interval size [MiB]
  recommended to set the same as the `minp` value.
* `-fp` <PERIOD>:
  flush interval period [ms]
  recommended to the same to the `qp` value.
* `-bp` <SIZE>:
  number of packs in bulk
  the same or the half of the `bi` value is recommended.
* `-bi` <SIZE>:
  numer of IOs in bulk
  512-4096 range is recommended.
    
## OPTIONS for delete-wdev

* `-f`:
  force to delete.

## OPTIONS for set-checkpoint-interval

* <INTERVAL>:
  new interval [ms]

## OPTIONS for set-oldest-lsid

* <LSID>:
  new lsid to set

## OPTIONS for resize

* <SIZE>:
  new size [logical block]

## OPTIONS for freeze

* <TIMEOUT>:
  timeout to melt [sec]. 0 means no timeout. (default: 0)


## SEE ALSO

walbc(1), walb-storage(1), walb-proxy(1), walb-archive(1)
